Docs: Adds basic frontend data request concepts (#28253)
grafana/grafana: contribute/architecture/frontend-data-requests.md

- When an ongoing request discovers that the special "cancel all requests" `requestId` was sent, then Grafana will cancel the ongoing request.

#### After Grafana 7.2
Grafana 7.2 introduced an additional way of canceling requests using [RxJs](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs). To support the new cancellation functionality, the data source needs to use the new `fetch` function in [BackendSrv](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/packages_api/runtime/backendsrv).

Migrating the core data sources to the new `fetch` function [is an ongoing process that you can read about in this issue.](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/27222)

## Request queue
Depending on how the web browser implements the protocol for HTTP 1.1, it will limit the number of parallel requests, lets call this limit _max_parallel_browser_request_. 

Unless you have configured Grafana to use HTTP2, the browser limits parallel data requests according to the browser's implementation. For more information on how to enable HTTP2, refer to [Configuration](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration/#protocol).

> Because there is a _max_parallel_browser_request_ limit, if some the requests take a long time, they will block later requests and make interacting with Grafana very slow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because there is a _max_parallel_browser_request_ limit, if some of the requests take a long time, they will block later requests and make interacting with Grafana very slow.
```

# Data requests

> [BackendSrv is the core data request service](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/packages_api/runtime/backendsrv) used by Grafana. This documentation highlights the high level concepts used by `BackendSrv`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[BackendSrv](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/packages_api/runtime/backendsrv) handles all outgoing HTTP requests from Grafana. This document explains the high-level concepts used by `BackendSrv`.
```

It may not be obvious to a newcomer what a "data request service" is. Instead of explaining what BackendSrv, I think it's better to explain what it does. Feel free to change my suggestion to something more accurate.

> ## Request `cancellation`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Canceling requests
```

It's not obvious to me what this section is about, especially with the backticks around cancellation.

Cancelling with two 'L's is British spelling. We prefer American spelling in our docs. Please update this throughout the document.

Author: Sure, will do!

> > **Note:** Data sources can implement their own cancellation concept. This documentation describes the `request cancellation` included in Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes how to cancel requests in Grafana. While data sources can implement their own cancellation concept, we recommend that you use the method we describe here.
```

I don't think this needs to be a note. I changed it so that it works better as a introduction to the section.

> ### The challenge

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this heading, and explain the problem directly under "Canceling requests".

> A data request can take a long time to finish. Between the request starts and finishes, the user might change context. For instance, the user navigates away or the user issues the same request again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A data request can take a long time to finish. During the time between when a request starts and finishes, the user might change context. For example, the user navigates away or issues the same request again.
```

> A data request can take a long time to finish. During the time between when a request starts and finishes, the user might change context. For example, the user navigates away or issues the same request again.

Author: Love it ❤️

> If we allow ongoing requests to continue, it might cause unnecessary load on data sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we wait for canceled requests to complete, it might cause unnecessary load on data sources.
```

I tried to use simpler language here. Feel free to change it if inaccurate.

Author: Love it ❤️

> Grafana uses a concept referenced as `request cancellation` to cancel any ongoing request that Grafana doesn’t need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana uses a concept called _request cancelation_ to cancel any ongoing request that Grafana doesn’t need.
```

Use italic when introducing a new concept.

> #### Before `Grafana 7.2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Before Grafana 7.2
```

Before Grafana can cancel any data request, Grafana needs to have a way to identify each request. Grafana identifies each request with the property `requestId` [passed as options](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/docs/sources/packages_api/runtime/backendsrvrequest.md) when you use [BackendSrv](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/packages_api/runtime/backendsrv).

The cancellation logic is:
- When an ongoing request discovers that an additional request with the same `requestId` has started, then Grafana will cancel the ongoing request.

> - When an ongoing request discovers that the “cancel all requests” `requestId`, then Grafana will cancel the ongoing request.

Reviewer 3: > When an ongoing request discovers that the “cancel all requests” `requestId`

Not sure this makes sense to me. Maybe should be "When an ongoing request discovers that the special "cancel all requests" requestId was sent"? Like is "cancel all requests" some sort of marker for the backend service that everything should be canceled?

Author: Thank you Andrej and yes we have a special token that cancels all requests. Used when a dashboard takes a very long time to load and you click this button or navigate away :)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/562238/95999022-c5d41c00-0e35-11eb-93e7-67435690b6d7.png)

> #### In `Grafana 7.2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### After Grafana 7.2
```

> With Grafana 7.2 we introduced an additional way of canceling requests using [RxJs](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs). To support the new cancellation functionality, the data source needs to use the new `fetch` function in [BackendSrv](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/packages_api/runtime/backendsrv).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana 7.2 introduced an additional way of canceling requests using [RxJs](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs). To support the new cancellation functionality, the data source needs to use the new `fetch` function in [BackendSrv](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/packages_api/runtime/backendsrv).
```

Migrating the core data sources to the new `fetch` function [is an ongoing process that you can read about in this issue.](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/issues/27222)

> ## Request `queue`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Request `queue`
```

Are you referring to "Queuing requests", or the actual queue itself?

Author: the queue itself

> ### The challenge

Reviewer 2: Same here. I don't think this heading is needed.

> Depending on how web browsers implement the `http1.1` protocol, the browser limits the number of concurrent requests to x number of parallel requests. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the web browser implement the protocol for HTTP 1.1, it may limit the number of concurrent requests. 
```

I think "to x number of parallel requests" is redundant here, but feel free to leave it if you think it's not.

> On a Grafana instance [that isn’t using HTTP2](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration/#protocol) the browser will then limit parallel data requests according to the browsers implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unless you have configured Grafana to use HTTP2, the browser limits concurrent data requests according to the browser's implementation. For more information on how to enable HTTP2, refer to [Configuration](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration/#protocol).
```

> Dashboards can have multiple panels, and each panel can issue multiple data requests. If these requests take a long time to finish the browser will then issue `x` number of parallel requests and wait before issuing any additional requests. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dashboards can have multiple panels, and each panel can issue multiple data requests. If these requests take too long to finish, the browser issues `x` number of parallel requests and waits before issuing any additional requests. 
```

Reviewer 3: This seems to imply causality, like if the requests take long time, browser send even more requests. Would word it something like:

Because there is maximum limit of parallel requests from the browser, if some of them take a long time, they can block later requests and make loading of a dashboard very slow.

Author: Thanks, I'll rephrase it

> This can become challenging if the user wants to use the Grafana's api to save the dashboard or search for another dashboard during these long running requests because that requires an additional data request. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can become challenging if the user wants to use the Grafana's API to save the dashboard or search for another dashboard during these long running requests because that requires an additional data request. 
```

This sentence is a little too long.

> The browser will then wait until there are `x - 1` parallel requests before processing the additional request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The browser then waits until there are `x - 1` parallel requests before processing the additional request.
```

Reviewer 3: Could we use something like `<max_parallel_browser_request>` instead of just `x`?

Author: Love it ❤️

Reviewer 4: Change to: The browser waits until ...

> #### Before `Grafana 7.2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Before Grafana 7.2
```

Not supported. 

> #### In `Grafana 7.2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### In Grafana 7.2
```

> Grafana uses a concept referenced as a `request queue` to queue all incoming data requests in order but reserve a spot for a Grafana api request. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana uses a _request queue_ to process all incoming data requests in order while reserving a spot for any requests to the Grafana API.
```

WDYT?

Author: Love it ❤️

> The first implementation of the `request queue` doesn’t take into account what browser the user uses, the limit for parallel data source requests is therefore hard coded to 5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the first implementation of the request queue doesn’t take into account what browser the user uses, the limit for parallel data source requests is therefore hard-coded to 5.
```

Reviewer 4: Since the first implementation of the request queue doesn’t take into account the browser used, the limit for parallel data source requests is hard-coded to 5.

> **Note:** Grafana instances [configured with HTTP2 ](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configuration/#protocol) will have a hard coded limit of 1000.

> The `request queue` is not the same as `request cancellation` and should be treated as such, although Grafana intertwines both concepts at a lower level in code. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The request queue is not the same as request cancellation and should be treated as such, although Grafana intertwines both concepts at a lower level in code. 
```

I'm not sure what this paragraph is adding. If it's important to understand how they intertwine, you should explain it, otherwise remove this paragraph.

Author: I want to emphasize that these are 2 different concepts not to be mixed up

Reviewer 2: Hm. Then I'd try explain how they're different rather just to say they are.

Author: Hmm, that was the whole point of this doc so that means I failed, maybe I'll just remove it then.
